README.md, before:

# Guilty

**🚧 This is a work in progress 🚧**

*Note: Most of this code was generated using GitHub Copilot Agent and Claude 3.7 Sonnet.*

Guilty is a web-based Git repository manager that provides simple repository management capabilities through an intuitive web interface. The name "Guilty" is a playful reference to Git, suggesting that your code changes can't hide from version control.

## Features

- **Repository Overview**: View all Git repositories in a centralized dashboard
- **Repository Creation**: Create new bare Git repositories with validation
- **Repository Deletion**: Safely delete repositories (with logical deletion approach)
- **File Browsing**: Navigate through repository files and directories
- **File Viewing**: View file contents with text/binary detection
- **Clone URL Support**: Easily copy Git clone URLs for repositories

## System Requirements

- Go 1.16 or later
- Git command-line tools
- systemd (for service installation)
- A local `git` user account (see Prerequisites section below)

## Prerequisites

### Git User Account Setup

Guilty requires a local `git` user account on your system to properly handle repository access:

```bash
# Create a git user account if it doesn't exist
sudo useradd git
```

If a `git` account already exists on your system and you cannot create one with `useradd`:

1. Create a home directory for the git user if needed:
   ```bash
   sudo mkdir -p /home/git
   ```

2. Edit the `/etc/passwd` file to set the correct home directory for the git user.

3. For external access to repositories, create a symbolic link from `/home/git/git` to your repository location:
   ```bash
   cd /home/git
   sudo ln -s /mnt/git git
   ```

This setup ensures that repositories can be accessed using the format: `git@hostname:git/repository.git`

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/soramimi/guilty.git
cd guilty

# Build the application
make build

# Install the application (requires superuser privileges)
sudo make install

# Set up the systemd service
sudo cp guilty.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable guilty
sudo systemctl start guilty
```

## Configuration

By default, Guilty looks for Git repositories in `/mnt/git`. If you need to change this location, modify the `GitRepositoryRoot` constant in the source code before building.

The hostname used for Git clone URLs defaults to `localhost` but can be customized.

## Usage

Once running, access the web interface at: http://localhost:8000

From there you can:
- Browse existing repositories
- Create new repositories
- View file contents
- Delete repositories

## Development

```bash
# Run in development mode
make run

# Build the application
make build

# Clean build artifacts
make clean
```

Commit message:

Update README.md and spec.md with current changes

README.md, after:

# Guilty

**🚧 This is a work in progress 🚧**

*Note: Most of this code was generated using GitHub Copilot Agent and Claude 3.7 Sonnet.*

Guilty is a web-based Git repository manager that provides simple repository management capabilities through an intuitive web interface. The name "Guilty" is a playful reference to Git, suggesting that your code changes can't hide from version control.

## Features

- **Repository Overview**: View all Git repositories in a centralized dashboard
- **Repository Grouping**: Organize repositories in logical groups
- **Repository Creation**: Create new bare Git repositories with validation
- **Repository Deletion**: Safely delete repositories (with logical deletion approach)
- **File Browsing**: Navigate through repository files and directories
- **File Viewing**: View file contents with text/binary detection
- **Clone URL Support**: Easily copy Git clone URLs for repositories

## System Requirements

- Go 1.16 or later
- Git command-line tools
- systemd (for service installation)
- A local `git` user account (see Prerequisites section below)

## Prerequisites

### Git User Account Setup

Guilty requires a local `git` user account on your system to properly handle repository access:

```bash
# Create a git user account if it doesn't exist
sudo useradd git
```

If a `git` account already exists on your system and you cannot create one with `useradd`:

1. Create a home directory for the git user if needed:
   ```bash
   sudo mkdir -p /home/git
   ```

2. Edit the `/etc/passwd` file to set the correct home directory for the git user.

3. For external access to repositories, create a symbolic link from `/home/git/git` to your repository location:
   ```bash
   cd /home/git
   sudo ln -s /mnt/git git
   ```

This setup ensures that repositories can be accessed using the format: `git@hostname:group/repository.git`

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/soramimi/guilty.git
cd guilty

# Build the application
make build

# Install the application (requires superuser privileges)
sudo make install

# Set up the systemd service
sudo cp guilty.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable guilty
sudo systemctl start guilty
```

## Configuration

By default, Guilty looks for Git repositories in `/mnt/git`. If you need to change this location, modify the `GitRepositoryRoot` constant in the source code before building.

The hostname used for Git clone URLs defaults to `localhost` but can be customized using a meta tag in the HTML templates.

## Usage

Once running, access the web interface at: http://localhost:8000

From there you can:
- Browse existing repositories organized by groups
- Filter repositories by group
- Create new repositories within specific groups
- View file contents
- Delete repositories

## Repository Groups

Guilty organizes repositories into groups:
- Groups are represented by subdirectories in the `/mnt/git` directory
- The default group is `git`
- Groups with special characters (except `-` and `_`) are excluded
- The group `git-shell-commands` is specifically excluded
- Repository URLs follow the pattern: `git@hostname:group/repository.git`

## Development

```bash
# Run in development mode
make run

# Build the application
make build

# Clean build artifacts
make clean
```

## JavaScript Utilities

Guilty includes a JavaScript utilities library (`GuiltyUtils`) that provides consistent URL generation functions for interacting with the API endpoints and navigating between pages. This ensures proper URL encoding and consistent URL patterns throughout the application.
